Creating a Stable Pivot Point
Before continuing,
let’s review what we currently have.
We have a shell on the WordPress box
as the www-data user,
and we also have network access
to the database.
Finally, we just discovered
database credentials
that we know are valid
since they are already in use
by the WordPress application.
Since the WordPress machine and the
database server are on separate networks,
this is a great time to use a tunnel.
However, our choices are limited
due to fact that our
reverse shell is running
in the context of the unprivileged
www-data user account,
which doesn’t have a valid login shell.
Since ssh (client)
is a core application that is included
in almost every Linux distribution,
we can attempt to use it
to create a reverse tunnel.
One caveat is that since
we do not have root access
to create a login for the www-data user,
we need to use the SSH client
on the WordPress machine
to log in to our Kali server
to create the tunnels.
In short, we’ll need a reverse tunnel.
A dynamic port forward would not be useful
to us since the tunnel would be going
the wrong way.
A local port forward would not be
useful either for the same reason.
The remote port forward would
allow us to open up a port in Kali
that would point to the MariaDB server.
To accomplish this, we need to know
which ports are actually
open on the database server.
First, we will check to see
if Nmap is on the server.
This would make port scanning easier.
As expected, Nmap
is not on the server.
However…
…we can use a simple Bash script
to scan the host.
Our script will iterate each port,
and make a connection for each port,
with a timeout of .1 seconds.
If the connection succeeds,
the script will echo which port is open.
This script is quick and rudimentary;
however, it should get us
the information that we want.
To run the script, we will
need to transfer it to Ajla.
A quick way to do this is to use
the meterpreter upload command.
With our port scanner uploaded,
we’ll make it executable and run it.
The scan takes a while to complete,
but when it’s done, we find that
ports 22 and 3306 are open.
Now we know that we
will need to create a tunnel
to allow Kali to have access to ports 22
and 3306 on the database server.
The ssh command to accomplish
this will look something like this:
We will open port 1122 on Kali
and this will connect to
port 22 on the MariaDB host.
We will also open port 13306
to point to port 3306.
However, since we don’t
have a fully-interactive shell,
we can’t run this command as-is.
There are two issues.
First, ssh will prompt us to accept
the host key of the Kali machine.
Second, ssh will prompt
for the Kali user’s password,
which we shold avoid entering
on a compromised host.
We can fix the first issue by
passing in two optional flags
to automatically accept the
host key of our Kali machine.
The first flag will set the
UserKnownHostsFile to /dev/null…
…and the second will will instruct ssh
to not prompt for the host key.
This combination will essentially
disable the host key check.
Next, we’ll bypass the
password prompt with ssh keys.
We will generate ssh keys
on the WordPress host,
configure Kali to accept a login
from the newly-generated key
(and only allow port forwarding),
and modify the ssh command
one more time to match our changes.
Let’s begin by generating an SSH key pair.
This new public key needs to
be entered in our Kali host’s
authorized_keys file for the kali user,
but with some restrictions.
To avoid potential security issues,
we’ll only allow access from the
WordPress machine’s IP address.
Note that this will be the NAT IP
since this is what Kali will see and not
the IP of the actual WordPress host.
Next, we’ll ignore user commands
with the command option.
We’ll also prevent agent
and X11 forwarding
with the no-agent-forwarding
and no-X11-forwarding options.
Finally, we’ll block pty allocation
with the no-pty option.
This entry allows the owner
of the private key
(the web server), to log in
to our Kali machine
but prevents them from running commands
and only allows for port forwarding.
Next, we need to add a couple more
options to our ssh command
to ensure that it will work.
First we need to add the -N flag
to specify that we are not
running any commands.
We also need the -f option
to background ssh.
Finally, we need to provide the
key file that we are using with -i.
Next, we’ll run the SSH command
in the meterpreter shell.
Now let’s verify that the ports
are open on our Kali machine.
At this point, since the ssh command
was run in the background,
even if our meterpreter shell were to die,
we would have remote access
to the database server
through the remote tunnel.